Welcome to Conestone
It's so good to have all of you.
I don't know how many we have on, but I know that you're watching from home.
So I want to just talk to you just a little bit this morning.
We had a whole service planned.
We are going to
get back to that.
I had a message prepared out of 2nd Peter and I do want to preach that message but I know that we will not have our full congregation on our Facebook live this morning so I went in and prepared something else and trying to just get together and I was talking about, we were talking about planning ahead.
And before we get into this though, let me pray with you and I see you there.
Oh, you're so welcome, Susan.
We just want to make sure that everybody's safe and hi, Diane.
It's good to see you.
I'll try to comment on everyone that I see, but let's pray together this morning as we begin.
Father, thank you for this day, for this time that we have together.
And Lord, we know that this is a little out of the ordinary.
But Lord, we're grateful for the tools of technology.
And there's so much to technology that I don't know, but what I do know I'm so just in awe of.
And just grateful that we have this that we'll be able to share together even virtually.
So Lord, thank you for that.
Just bless us this morning.
Keep us safe through any weather that may be going on in and around us.
And Lord, in our own backyard or further out, we just pray for the ones, Lord, we know that we have
apparently been spared from what we can tell at this point from any type of major impacts.
But Lord, we know that that's not the case for people that are northern and west of us and even east of us.
So we just pray for those folks, Lord, as they brace for this, as we know that some of them are even being impacted now.
So we just pray that you just take care of them through this.
And we just ask, Father, that it's not something, Lord, that is claiming lives.
and causing those kinds of problems out of the further north that we get.
So Lord, just bless us all and we thank you Lord.
We're grateful for what you give us and we're just thankful Lord that you love us and that you take care of us in all circumstances and all situations.
So bless this study that we have together this morning and we give you thanks for it and it's in the name of Jesus we pray.
Amen.
I was thinking of
what to prepare for you over the last couple of days.
I was looking back through some old sermon notes and was just looking at several different things.
Nothing was really hitting and I found something that was from years ago and I preached a whole sermon series on the entire book of James and one of the
messages that I used back then and some of you were here and some of you were not but it was talking about how we plan ahead and that just kind of hit me as I was thinking of this because of the the plan process that we take whenever we are getting ready for what we're dealing with today.
And, you know, I went to some stores and I had to go in and try to, we didn't have anything in the house.
And I had promised Lisa when we had something like this before, I said, you know, I'm just not going to let ourselves get in that situation again.
If we, if we hear something's coming, we're going to try to be, try to be better prepared.
So I ordered some things online and, and I went to the store and, and I share and I see you too.
Hey, Suzanne.
Good morning.
But, but I went and, and to my surprise and to
my relief I noticed that the shelves were not completely bare and and I think that that's dependent on where you go and when I went was earlier in the week so I think that kind of helped me as well to where you know I went before the panic buying started happening so I asked the cashier I said are a lot of people panic buying and she says not yet and so I'd hate to go in there now to see what the shelves look like but maybe you had
experience that way too.
But I just thought about it.
Planning ahead.
You know, how do we do this?
You know, we get prepared for all kinds of different things and I want to read a passage of Scripture with you this morning out of the book of James.
So hopefully you have your Bibles and if you do, I'm going to reach over here and get my
makeshift pulpit area here this morning.
But I want to read with you a passage of scripture out of James chapter 4 verses 13 to 17.
So I'll give you just a moment to turn there.
Chapter 4, 13 to 17 of the book of James.
Chapter 4, 13 to 17.
Yes, that's right.
All right, so I'll give you just a moment to
turn over there.
This is a great passage of scripture and one that we have discussed before.
And it talks a great deal about being prepared and how we should be prepared for life through the will of God.
So let's read this together.
Again, James chapter four, verses 13 to 17.
It reads this way, James says, now listen, you who say today or tomorrow we will go to this or that city
spend a year there, carry on business, and make money.
Why you do not even know what will happen tomorrow?
What is your life?
You are a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes.
Instead you ought to say it is the Lord's will.
We will live and do this or that.
As it is, you boast in your arrogant schemes.
All such boasting is evil.
If anyone then knows the good they ought to do and doesn't do it, it is sin for them.
And in reading this for the first time in this room that I am in upstairs, I see that we need more light up here.
So forgive me for that.
I stumbled through that just a little bit.
But anyway, I think we got it all read there together.
But as a child, for me, and I talk about this a lot, my childhood was impactful on me and hopefully yours was
as well for the good.
But one of the things that was instilled in me was, Steve, you ought to always try to plan ahead.
And we could plan ahead on all kinds of things, can't we?
There's all kinds of things that need planning.
The first thing that usually comes to mind when I think of planning ahead is financially.
And I think about the class that the brother Dave taught of several of our members and others came to be part of the financial piece class.
I wish that I could have attended that, but it was just a wonderful time together to be able to talk especially about planning and planning ahead and being better stewards of our money and trying to put a little money away so something unexpected comes along, we're better
prepared.
Isn't that important?
I think that's good advice.
I really do.
And we should do this on our own lives or in our own lives and also in the life of the church.
And the way I see it, there is absolutely nothing wrong with being prepared and nothing in looking ahead.
There's nothing wrong with planning.
But in this passage, James is teaching here that we must be and we must stay in the will of God.
So he's continuing his teaching here on not being self-centered.
If you were to read the front of James, the front part of this, you would see this, but he's continuing his teaching here on not being self-centered, but following and trusting God's will for our lives.
And in these verses, he wants us to know and he wants us to be aware of how we plan our lives.
And too many times, even we as Christians can find ourselves
making what we think are just absolutely stellar and wonderful plans for our lives but it turns out sometimes that the plans that we make are not really in the will of God.
That happens.
It happens to Christians day in and day out and it can be easy for Christians to make plans and goals for our own lives and then in turn we expect God to fall in line with that.
It's easy for us to plan our lives as
if we control the future and as if we have unlimited authority over everything that affects our lives.
And you know it can even be easy for us to plan our own lives as if God doesn't even exist and it's a shame that there are people that do it just that way.
But it's hard for me and I know it is for you to even think about it that way.
It's tough to admit to ourselves that we could be guilty of actually having the wrong attitude towards the will of God.
So in this section, James is pointing out three attitudes towards the will of God.
Let's just take a moment together and unpack these few verses.
First of all, James is telling us that one attitude that we have towards the will of God is just to flat out ignore it completely.
Most scholars agree that when James was writing this, he was addressing some of the wealthy businessmen who were there in that assembly.
And these businessmen were planning their lives
outside of the will of God.
And they had tremendous plans, none of them, which even remotely included at all the will of God in their life.
Some of these businessmen could have been non-believers, but others could have been believers in the existence of God, but lived as though he really didn't exist.
None of them considered God in their plans.
They measured their success by what they gained.
by getting their own way and accomplishing what they had planned for themselves.
So folks, there's decisions that I believe that we must make on a daily basis.
I don't know about you, but I find life to be complex.
We deal with difficult decisions every day.
Life is made up of people, isn't it?
It's made up of places.
It's made up of activities and goals.
It's made up of hours and days.
And it's made up of years.
We're tasked with making critical decisions every day.
Our decisions and actions not only affect us, they can affect others as well.
If you've ever been in a business or any line of work really, you know exactly what I'm talking about.
But locally here in our church at Cornerstone, I take my role as your pastor very seriously.
There's decisions that have to be made daily that affect you as a congregation.
Sometimes these things are difficult for pastors in general.
Yes, we have committees, we have deacons and so forth, but
I'm responsible for the decisions that are made here.
It's completely up to me to put our church in the direction spiritually in the will of God.
I take it seriously to seek the Lord's will on each and every decision.
And the way I see it, folks, and I think you know this, there is nothing that's too small and there is nothing that is too big for our God.
Like anything else, some decisions are popular.
Some decisions might not be quite as popular.
That's the nature of working together as a church family and a church congregation.
Not only Cornerstone, but the Worldwide Church must not be ignoring the will of God.
You see for the church, for us, apart from the will of God, life is really a mystery.
When we know Jesus Christ as our Savior and we begin to seek the will of God, life really starts making sense.
Everything around you will begin to have new meaning in your life.
You will develop confidence that only comes from the Lord.
Confidence that will cause you to cease ignoring God's will.
You will have confidence in knowing that seeking God's will for your life causes you to live victoriously through Jesus.
Life is complex.
Life is also uncertain.
Notice what verse 14 says.
Why you do not even know what will happen tomorrow?
What is your life, James asked?
You are a missed
that appears for a little while and then vanishes.
Proverbs 27.1 says this, do not boast about tomorrow for you do not know what a day may bring.
These businessmen that James was referring to in this chapter were making plans for the entire year when they couldn't even see ahead to the next day.
They were speaking with such, such confidence here.
They were being boastfully confident.
They had their man-made plans that they were so confident in.
Verse 13 says it.
We will go.
We will stay one year.
We will buy and sell and we will make profit.
They were very certain of their plan and they were boastfully sure of their future success.
The attitude of the businessmen may remind us of the parable of the rich fool.
We can find this story in the Gospel of Luke chapter 12.
This farmer had such a harvest and he wanted to tear down his barns and build bigger ones so that he could store it all and live easy for the rest of his days.
Well, God had something to say about that.
He told him in verse 20, he calls him something.
He says, you fool, this very night, your life will be demanded from you.
Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?
You see, life is uncertain to us, but it is not uncertain to God.
It is only when we are in the will of God that we can be confident of what is tomorrow.
We can only know this if God is the one who is leading us through it.
The brevity of life is short.
This is one of those things in life that the Bible talks about often.
It's a repeated theme in the Scriptures, and we're not ever promised tomorrow, are we?
To us, life may seem long,
We measure it in many ways.
We measure it in years.
But in comparison to eternity, as the Bible says, it is like a mist or it's like a vapor.
James used that figure of speech by knowing the story of Job.
And if you've read anything about Job, you know what we're talking about.
Job referred to the length of life many times, including what he said in his book, chapter eight, verse nine.
He says this, we were
for we were born only yesterday and know nothing, and our days on earth are but a shadow.
Life goes by quickly, doesn't it?
Compared to eternity, it's just a flash.
Whether we live on this earth 20 years, 40, 80, or 100 years, none of that can compare with eternity.
Psalms 90 verse 12 tells us to live our lives how often?
One day at a time.
During these days, it's when those who seek it will gain a heart of wisdom.
Life is brief.
It's very brief.
Listen, we can't afford to just spend our days.
We certainly don't want to waste our days outside of the will of God.
No, we must choose to invest our days.
We must invest into the will of God and those things that are eternal.
through him.
People all over the world are making investments in things that have huge payoff potential, and this is good.
There's nothing wrong with that.
But are we following the will of God when we are doing it?
How foolish is it for us to ignore the will of God?
Ignoring the will of God is like running through the forest without a compass.
We'll get turned around.
We're susceptible to the elements that are harmful to us.
Listen, we must search for and live in the will of God.
All of our accumulations and our accolades on this earth are temporary.
What are we investing in that is eternal?
You see, God reveals His will and His word, but there are so many who ignore what God's word says.
The word of God lays it out for us.
He gives us precepts.
He gives us principles.
He gives us promises that are there to carry us through our daily lives.
And if we want true eternal success,
The only investment that you can make is to invest in the Lord.
He is our success.
Not only should we not ignore God's will, we should not disobey God's will.
And I'm reminding of our, reminded of our series that we had a few years ago through the book of Jonah.
I mentioned him earlier, uh, mentioned Job early and this is Jonah, but Jonah knew what God's will was for his life.
He just simply said, no,
Thank you, I've got a better idea.
He disobeyed God's will.
So let me ask you this question, which is worse?
Ignoring God's will or disobeying God's will?
Well, I guess a case could really be made either way.
For me, I would lean towards disobeying God's will.
And here's why.
In disobeying God's will, pride enters the picture.
And even more so than ignoring God's will.
We might as well be telling God, God, I know what you want me to do, but I'm going in a different direction.
Thank you, Lord.
But no, we might as well say, Lord, I know more about this than you do.
Can you imagine saying that?
Can you imagine saying, Lord, no, thank you.
I'll let you know how it turns out.
Well, I mentioned second Peter a moment ago, and in chapter two, it addresses this.
Verse 21, Peter said,
It would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than to have known it and then turned their backs on the sacred command that was passed on to them.
Another reason that man can disobey the will of God is the misunderstanding of God's nature.
Man acts as if God's will is something that he can either accept it or he can reject it.
And the truth of the matter is this, the will of God, this is not an option.
It's an obligation.
We cannot have a take it or leave it mentality.
God is the Creator.
He created all of us and all things and everywhere.
We are His creation.
He is the Savior.
He is the Lord and we are His children.
We are His servants and we must obey His commands.
Listen, I see this as a non-negotiable according to the Word of God.
When we make a conscious decision,
to disobey the will of God, you need to know that we are inviting his chastening as well.
We cannot afford to think that God is just gonna let it go.
Disobeying the Lord will lead to misery.
If you don't think so, just go back again and read the book of Jonah.
Listen, even if we slide through life outside the will of God and we don't face much difficulty, what are we gonna say when we reach the judgment seat of God?
There's coming a time when we have to answer.
Hebrews chapter 12, verses five and six has this to say, as a father addresses his son, it says, my son do not make light of the Lord's discipline.
Do not lose heart when he rebukes you because the Lord disciplines the one he loves.
And he chastens everyone he accepts as his son.
And verse eight of that same chapter tells us, if you're not disciplined, listen,
If you're not disciplined and everyone undergoes discipline, then you are not legitimate, not true sons and daughters at all.
If you think you're out of the will of the Lord and you're not being chastened for, take a look at yourself.
You see, God's chastening is an evidence of God's love.
A lot of people look at it as being God's hatred, but it's not.
It is evidence of the love of God.
though chastening can be hard to take.
It has a comforting sonship that comes directly with it.
Well, folks, there's a third option today.
Instead of ignoring God's will or disobeying God's will, why don't we just do this?
Why don't we just actually obey the will of God?
As you know, I love Paul's teachings in the New Testament.
Paul looked at the will of God in a special way.
and we should all adopt this attitude towards it.
Listen, Paul didn't consider the will of God as a chain.
He didn't consider it as a lock that bound him or tied him up.
He looked at it as the key that opened the doors and set him free.
We must remember that every commandment in the Bible that is addressed to the believer is part of the will of God and there's no option but to
obey it.
But you see God doesn't call all of us to do the same things, does He?
We all have differences in the work that we're called to do.
We have differences in our gifts and in our ministries.
God's will, He has a personal will just for you.
He, Taylor, made it just for you.
We must have the right attitude towards His will.
It's very personal.
There are things that he specifically has for you to do.
Sometimes we can't help it because we're humans, but we step out from under the umbrella of the will of God and we step to the side of that.
We're out of his will.
But we also must understand that if and when this happens, we do serve a forgiving God.
Thank the Lord we do.
Start the end of the world.
We might suffer for a while, but God, when he cannot rule, listen, when God cannot rule, what does he do?
He overrules.
God will bring you back into his will.
We must never think that our failure in knowing or doing God's will will permanently affect our relationship with the Lord in a negative way.
Why?
Because God will forgive us if we ask from the heart.
I love the assurance
that we see in 1st John chapter one, verse nine, it says, if we listen, if we confess our sins, I like this.
He is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us all from all unrighteousness.
Our relationship to God's will is one that is continuous.
It grows daily.
God's will is not hard to discover.
John 717 tells us that if we're willing and ready to obey, he is ready and willing to reveal to us.
God expects us to be all in.
He wants all of us.
He doesn't want us to know and obey just some of his will.
He wants us to know and obey all of his will as he reveals it to us.
It's a constant reveal.
that he gives to us.
It's all important to him and he has a plan for every little detail that concerns each and every one of us.
So I want to close with this this morning and we must have the attitude of faithfully doing the will of God from the heart.
And as we are planning ahead, as we are looking in our lives and we are planning for the future in the will of God and how he wants us to be in our lives, is we're planning ahead.
We must submit to the Lord in every decision that we make.
We must submit and give to God.
We must give to His will joyfully.
2 Corinthians tells us in chapter 9 verse 7, God loves a cheerful giver.
This not only applies to our tithing offering, although it does, but it also applies to how we respond to the will of God.
When we delight in our spiritual duties,
Our burdens become something else.
They become blessings.
And when we start serving the Lord like He wants us to, we're going to find joy in the journey.
We'll see a deeper faith and a deeper fellowship with Jesus.
We will see our prayers answered and we will know that the truth that the Lord has laid out for us in His Word.
So when the plans that you make are the plans of the one and the only God, let's say,
you will see an eternal difference in every aspect of your life.
So as you are planning your life, let me ask you, are you ignoring the will of God?
Are you disobeying the will of God?
I hope and pray today that you are absolutely 100% obeying the will of God.
This is the only way to victorious eternal living.
Now our lives at the moment or in the moment might not seem to appear to be very much easier, but I can tell you church, we're going to be holier.
We're going to be happier.
We're going to have joy and delight in our hearts.
If you are one today that cannot say that you are a hundred percent sure that you were planning ahead in God's will,
Please send me a text message.
Please send me a Facebook message.
I want to pray for you.
I want to pray with you.
I want the Lord to put you back in the place that he wants you to be.
You don't have to live an unhappy life, Christian.
You don't have to live outside of the will of God.
So today from the heart surrender and submit to his will for your life.
Don't waste any time.
God is calling.
You.
Folks, I hope that you've gotten something out of this Bible study this morning.
I hope that there's been something that has spoken to you.
Jesus, we pray.
Amen.
Well, folks, be careful today.
Thank you for the comments.
I see that on my phone.
I notice the likes and the hearts and everything going up.
So that's important.
Share this around.
Hopefully someone will be able to get this today that needs to hear it.
And I just pray that you're safe.
It looks like, again, we do have some other weather that's coming in.
But just God bless you guys.
Thank you for understanding about today.
Again, it's frustrating for me to make a decision and then we look at it and say, well, you know, we could have done this or we could have done that.
But you know, could he, would he, should he, however you want to put it.
But God bless you guys.
And I pray that today's a wonderful day.
And if you need anything, please don't hesitate to call us.
Look at your prayer list daily.
Take a look at those.
Remember the ones that I've recently sent emails out about.
We have some folks that are facing surgeries, all kinds of different things.
So y'all just pray for those folks as we continue.
So have a great, great day.
Thank you for joining us today on the podcast and learning God's word together at Cornerstone Baptist Church.
To find out more about how to have a personal walk with Jesus, check out the contact page on our website at cbcakin.com.
We'd love to have you visit us at 100 Cornerstone Drive, Akin, South Carolina.
You're always welcome.
Don't hesitate to reach out.
God bless you and have a wonderful day.